# DOM Homework

## Introduction

In a single night in August 2013, French web developer Julien "Orteil" Thiennot wrote a simple browser-based game called "[Cookie Clicker](https://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/)", hoping to direct some traffic to his personal website while also having some fun. Overnight, the game attracted some 50,000 players, within several months garnering 1.5 million page views per day. What began as a one-night project--and something of a joke--is now considered to be a founding entry in the genre of ["idle" or "incremental" games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incremental_game), which account for a not insignificant percentage of the \$559 million in revenue generated by casual, mobile video games.

By the end of just your first week at Fullstack, you'll have almost all of the skills necessary to build Cookie Clicker. This homework assignment uses test-driven learning to walk you through the process of building a clone of Orteil's javascript masterpiece. Once you've passed the tests, you'll have a working browser-based interactive game-- and perhaps be well on your way to programming your very own smash hit casual game.

In the typical "incremental" game, the player performs some repetitive action (often, clicking) to gain or "increment" a resource, like gold, points, or cookies. This resource can then be expended to purchase "buildings" or "producers" which increment the resource automatically, giving the player the experience of "automating" the repetitive action. As the player progresses, the game begins to "plays itself"; new buildings and features are unlocked, and the player's attention turns to making decisions about optimizing expenditure of resources to maximize returns.

If this doesn't sound very fun, that's fine-- it's not for everyone. But it's also easier to see than it is to explain. So take a few minutes to check out [Cookie Clicker](https://orteil.dashnet.org/cookieclicker/); just remember to come back and start the workshop, afterward!

## Coffee Clicker

Our Cookie Clicker clone will be coffee-themed. The player will click a giant Coffee emoji, incrementing a counter showing the quantity of Coffee in their possession. Coffee can be spent to purchase coffee-producing devices, such as percolators and espresso machines; every second, they'll accumulate even more coffee (even when not clicking) proportionate to the number of coffee-producing devices they've purchased.

Importantly, the price (in coffee) of each producer will increase proportionately to the number already in the player's possession. This is what enables the game to remain interesting even after coffee production has been automated: the player has to make decisions about which purchases make best use of their coffee depending on the current price of each producer. Check out the demo below or try out Cookie Clicker if what we're talking about here isn't clear.

In addition to their Coffee counter, the player will be able to see how many of each producer they possess, the current price of each producers, the CPS (coffee per second) of each producer, and their total CPS. Finally, to make things more interesting, we won't show all of the producers at the start of the game-- they'll be unlocked successively as they player accumulates more coffee.

INSERT YOUTUBE VIDEO OF FINAL PRODUCT? LINK TO GH-PAGES-HOSTED FINAL PRODUCT WITH OBFUSCATED SOURCE CODE?

## First Steps

We've written the HTML and CSS for Coffee Clicker for you; you'll be working in the scripts.js file.

HOW TO START SERVER

HOW DATA.JS WORKS

HOW TO USE MOCHA
